## **Empirical Premise**
Brain-computer interfacing will induce widespread plastic changes in the brain which should be monitored
## **Ethical / Normative Premise**
The change in personality that follows from a BCI should not impact the access to BCI, but the effects on the personality should be understood and disclosed to the person that will be part of the BCI.
## **Conclusion**
If we want BCI systems to be responsibly used, it is necessary to research and understand the influences that it has on the behavior and character of the person whose brain will be interacted with.

Technology is inherently altering our brain as it is a extension of our actions. 

The effect of the utility increases over the extent to which the technology integrates with our brain. A hammer, as an elemental example, is a static prosthetic that in comparison to our car or social media identity does not merge with our identity as human being. We base part of our social relationships through our technical tools, where the technology influences our character and behavior. The more the technology integrates with our brain, the more strongly the technology can be adaptively and significantly be used by the person taking part in this human-technology relation. Don Ihde describes a postphenomenological approach to technology, where this type of relationship could be described as an embodiment relation, where technologies form a unity with a human being, where this unity is then directed at the world: '(human-technology)-> world'. (Ihde, D. 1990) This is further supported by P.P. Verbeek, who argues that human freedom cannot be saved by shying away from technological mediation, but only by developing free relations to them, dealing in a responsible way with the inevitable mediating roles of technologies in our lives (Verbeek, P.P. 2015). Perhaps it supports the claim that I am a human being and not a form of artificial intelligence when I mention that I was inspired to use this argument when Verbeek gave the lecture about the mediating role of technologies that I attended in person.

An inherent quality of a technology is the amount it integrates with our brain. Korte researched the effect of frequent smartphone use on the brain: increased cortical potentials allotted to the tactile receptors on the fingertips, early extensive screen-based media use is significantly associated with lowe microstructural integrity of the brain white matter tracts supporting language and literacy skill, with the most interesting result being that the size of an adolescent's online social network seems to be closely linked to the brain anatomy alterations as demonstrated by structural MRI (Korte 2020). The more significant a technology is to our daily lives, the more it will change our general brain structure. It is very imaginable that when a paralyzed person from birth has gained the ability to walk through a potential working BCI system, the motor cortex will develop into a more active area than it was before the paralyzation was remedied. This is an undeniable and unavoidable effect of a well-integrated and significant technology.