## Conclusion on AI / data privacy (emperical / summarization) - Akshay

Through the previous sections we presented various implications of using AI powered BCI technology. We found that BCI can prove extremely useful for people with disabilities to be inclusive in the society. BCI can mitigate their disabilities and restore their capability to hear, see, learn and move like anyone else. But we also found some problems attached to the use of this revolutionary technology. There are risks related to the physical and mental safety of the user and also the privacy risks that the users are exposed to. In relation to the safety of the users, BCI can cause long term effects to the functioning of the brain and the users may not be communicated about this leading to complications. Moreover, since BCI is a digital technology, it comes with all the risks related to privacy and interferences. Just like how a computer could be hacked and interfered with, BCI devices can also be vulnerable to such attacks. This can expose the user to risks like breach of data, loss of control to their device and more. This shows that BCI has many positive applications but when developing BCI technology we need to keep in mind the negative implications and mitigate these risks through design and research. 

## General conclusion positive and negative side to BCI (ethical & moral implications) - Tim
Through approaching BCI's from 3 different ethical aspects, it is possible to synthesize a conclusive estimation of the ethicality of the technology. The application of AI to BCI allows for better substitution of brain control in the case of a disability, which increases accessibility in daily life for those that are physically impaired. This leads to an increase in the person's functionings, capabilities but also general integration into society. As the technology develops that allows medical specialists to intervene invasively into the human brain, its potential resulting effect is more significant and impactful on the patients ability to re-enter and participate in society.

Access to this technology does come at the cost of risking broad cyborgization (and the external interference that might follow), engineering imperfections and their consequences, unfair brain augmentation and unintended characteristic or behavioral implications. It is argued that cyborgization already takes place on a large scale, although in combination with the threat of external interference to pregnable wireless communication, this poses a significant negative ethical implication to BCI technology. Additionally, as the amount of brain function that is substituted increases, also the responsibility to those who design the BCI increases. It is not deemed to be as important of an ethical implication as we have seen way more potentially dangerous technologies such as cars and airplanes be used that had their imperfections in their early stage of development. Another likely threat to the ethicality of BCI related research is the possibility of brain augmentation for the wealthy. A further increase to the inequality existing in society has a negative ethical impact, although it is expected that the potential loss of extremely personal neural data will discourage those but the ones that absolutely need it to be able to participate in society will find it worth risking. Lastly, the unavoidable change in character and behavior will be significant but should not have major negative ethical impact as long as it is understood and disclosed to the person undergoing the BCI what the implications are to the character and behavior by the implementation of the intervention. 

## Recommmendation for BCI research - Sven
 The implications for researchers in the BCI field is that there are definitely risks and downsides involved, but these can be reduced as much as possible to reach a state where the benefits outweigh the risks and impact of this risk. The benefits from BCI have a positive influence on the wellbeing of individuals through accessibility and inclusivity for example. The implications of a privacy breach are still very significant, however, with careful and considerate engineering this risk can be reduced. Researchers should also consider the application for the BCI, where a controlled environment sets the stage for the best possible risk mitigation, exposure to the current outside environment will inherently increase the risk on concerns such as privacy. It is of utmost importance to keep this risks down with as much effort as possible to make sure the risks do not outweigh the benefits. Because these benefits will still exist also when the risks are too high, this should be a good motivation to mitigate the risks as there is a lot to gain. Furthermore, The people involved with BCI research should make an effort to understand the underlying mechanisms that could change character and behavior. With these measures in mind, BCI research should definately continue to improve lifes.

 