## General BCI introduction (incl neuralink) - Tim
After a great period of increased availability of food and limited amount of destructive physical human labor, humanity seems to have reached a peak in human performance. Birth rate has been falling, prosperity disease has been on the rise: the start of the great decay of the most powerful civilizations of the 20th century has begun. It might be time to solve the most complex diseases that occur within the brain instead of just the body that surrounds it. A direct connection to our brain has the potential to intervene in the most complex disease that impact the great controller that moves and motivates our body, but might come at the cost of the integrity of the person. 

June of this year marks the month that brain-implant company Neuralink received FDA approval to start testing on human subjects. (The Guardian, 2023) Brain-Computer Interfacing is not a foreign technology only appearing in science-fiction any longer. What does this imply in the context of healthcare, equality and our humanity itself?

## AI applied to BCI (incl Zhang 2019) - Akshay

All this has been possible mainly due to the advancements in Artificial Intelligence technology that has propelled the development of Brain-computer Interfaces. Most of the BCI applications in past decade have been possible with AI assistance [Zhang]. These applications help improve the quality of paralyzed patient's lives, help people with disabilities with their everyday activities. They have also shown promising impact in rehabilitation of people with neurodevelopment disorders [neurodevelopment]. Without AI, it was very hard to make any sense of the data (EEG, fMRI) that was gathered from BCI. Artificial Intelligence helps in the analysis and decoding of neural activity data. AI, in conjunction with Brain-Computer Interfaces, receives ongoing updates of internal parameters, including data on pulse durations, amplitudes, stimulation/recording densities, and electrical properties of neural tissues. Once equipped with this information, AI algorithms swiftly discern valuable insights and logical patterns within the data, enabling them to generate the desired functional results in real-time. 

One of the application that has resulted from this is the ability to control computer cursor. This can help people with disabilities to operate a personal computer to get various tasks done. Another crucial application has been in neuroprosthetics and limb rehabilitation. These applications include the ability to restore behaviors such as reaching and grasping, self-feeding and arm movements. One of the biggest breakthroughs has been in the field of speech synthesis. [[speech.pdf]] make use of deep-learning AI algorithms to create computational models for the detection and classification of words from patterns in the recorded cortical activity. This would restore the ability to communicate in paralyzed persons who cannot speak. 

Visual prosthetics is another key application using BCI. With AI rudimentary vision can be achieved by converting images into binary pulses of electrical signals and delivering them the visual cortex [[Retinal_Prosthesis.pdf]]. 

## Postive and negative implications of BCI (incl Burwell 2017) - Sven
