# Present the argument

In this section it will become clear why BCI poses a threat to human rights. I will discuss the ethical implication of external interference on wireless BCI and present some counterarguments. I will explain why these counterarguments and the current strategy does not suffice. 
A study showed that one of the concerns of the general public regarding the BCI is related to privacy `[Jebari 2012]`. Subjects state that it is required to have strict legislation in order to prevent sensitive information from landing in the wrong hands. But is this legislation a solution to the privacy problem? I argue that the use of wireless communication in BCI exposes its user to risk of interference. 
Informational privacy is of concern regarding BCI because of the nature of the data. This data may contain unexpressed thoughts, personality characteristics and emotions among others. With this data being so sensitive it is of utmost importance that this data is handled very carefully. With this in mind, a wireless communication system is prone to external interference like electromagnetic interference or even deliberate hacking attempts. This sets the stage for a data leak of any kind. But is this public concern about privacy correct, or is there no just cause? According to article 12 in the UHDR `[UHDR]`, no one shall be subjected to arbitrary interference with his privacy. Therefore, using BCI with wireless communication will violate the human rights. 



# Evaluating the argument
Since wireless communication is prone to external interference the risk of a data leak cannot be deemed neglegible. A seperation is made between intentional and unintentional interference. Where unintentional interference includes for instance electromagnetic interference and intentional interference means there is someone deliberately trying to interfere. The ethical implication of interference in the form of intentional interference, might be that there are unknown third parties who are able to access your thoughts. This directly violates the 12th article in the UHDR and should therefore be considered as a violation of human rights. In my opinion, the risk of interference in combination with the catastrophic implication is too problematic to be able to widely adopt this technology. There is a conditional relationship between the premises. If there is a risk of interference, then there are potential privacy concerns. I conclude my statement by connecting the two premises. 
The premise includes a stress on the importance of privacy for humans. This right is not te be violated without just cause. This premise is not just a philosophical concept but it is incorporated into legal documents such as the UHDR and the ECHR `[ECHR]`. The recognition of this right into law also implies its importance. 
In a way, the interference with privacy can be connected with broader ethical principles such as autonomy and dignity. Since for example they are not able to have their own thoughts without worrying they will be leaked to any other instance or entity which prevents them from freedom of thought. Glannon also discussed the undermining of autonomy by interference on wireless BCI `[Glannon 2013]`. 
Unintentional interference might lead to a wrong readout by a BCI device and this can also lead to problems where for instance the left arm is raised where the user meant to raise the right arm. This can be perceived as a lack in autonomy as well since you cannot make your own decisions. This autonomy has intrinsic value and is not merely a means to achieve other ends `[Young 1982]`.



# Adressing Counterarguments
One of the objections which could be argued is that wireless protocols are being developed to be more resilient against external interference. There is a lot of development in cybersecurity in general which should prevent any data leaks. Therefore one could argue that the risk of interference is sufficiently low that the benefits of BCI outweigh the privacy concerns.
However, there is also a lot of development going into avoiding these security measures. People will always find ways to get to this data and as discussed earlier this is harmful to the BCI subject in question. I believe there is a constant flow of new security measures and a following development in ways to get around it. I would describe the risk of a security breach like a sawtooth, where the security measures are implemented and slowly the technology catches up. While the average risk might not be high, the maximum risk is what we should be concerned about. 

One of the key points made during the interview of Jebari et al. is that there should be strict legislation regarding the privacy of the data. While this of course sounds great and very logical, it is hard to enforce when there are uncontrollable factors like the external interferance. Since there is little control over these factors it is really hard to enforce them. Especially when talking about the unintentional interference.


# Conclusion
In conclusion, risk of a privacy breach during wireless BCI procedures is too high because of the external interference either intentional or unintentional. The effects of this breach are directly violiting human rights as stated in the UHDR. 
